Earlier in the course,
we discussed how Amazon CloudWatch can assist you in maintaining
and gaining insights from your database logs,
including query logging.
For maintaining an audit trail, you may consider using Amazon CloudTrail.
CloudTrail records actions taken in your AWS account.
This allows you to gain visibility into what is going on
across the various services you are using.
You can set up alerts when certain actions happen in your account and even
configure automated responses when certain events occur.
CloudTrail can provide valuable information for several different use cases.
First, compliance auditing.
You can configure CloudTrail to capture all events in your
AWS account and prevent users from changing CloudTrail
events or turning off the service,
ensuring you have a complete record of actions when it comes time to audit.
Next, operational troubleshooting.
When something goes wrong,
you can work backwards to narrow down what might have caused the
problem or if actions in one AWS service had unintentional side
effects on another AWS service.
Third, security analysis.
You can identify user behavior patterns over time,
then detect any unusual behavior that may indicate unauthorized
infrastructure changes or excessive resource usage.
Finally,
not only can you detect unusual or unauthorized behavior in your
account, you can create automation to respond to those events and
apply any necessary remediation.
CloudTrail tracks who is performing actions in your account,
whether that is a user, a role, or another AWS service.
CloudTrail records what they are doing in terms of the actual
API call that was made to an AWS service,
and when that call was made. The resulting who,
what,
and when information is packaged into a JSON file and stored in an S3 bucket.
CloudTrail writes the logs to an S3 bucket in batches,
so there can be a delay of several minutes between the time an
event occurs and the time you con view it.
You can view CloudTrail events from the CloudTrail dashboard in the AWS console.
You can also download the event logs as a ZIP file from the S3 bucket.
Amazon Athena allows you to query the S3 bucket directly
with a SQL‑like syntax to analyze events.
Amazon CloudWatch integrates with CloudTrail so you can set up
CloudWatch logs to monitor CloudTrail events.
You can also create rules that look for certain CloudTrail events,
then trigger a CloudWatch event when a CloudTrail event matches a rule.
The CloudWatch event can then invoke several different targets,
for example, an SNS topic,
which could deliver an email notification about the event,
or a lambda function, which could take some corrective action.
Depending on the database services you use,
CloudTrail can be a good addition to your
monitoring and troubleshooting strategy.
AWS Web Application Firewall, or WAF,
allows you to filter traffic with rules based on any part of the web request.
You can use managed rules,
which are designed to protect against common threats including SQL injection,
and are automatically updated as new issues emerge.
You can use WAF with CloudFront, Application Load Balancers, or API Gateway.
Depending on your database service or application,
WAF may be a good addition to filter incoming requests.
Amazon GuardDuty is a threat detection service that continually
monitors events across multiple AWS data sources,
such as, AWS CloudTrail, Amazon VPC Flow Logs,
and DNS Logs.
GuardDuty uses machine learning to establish a baseline for your normal
account activity and assigns threats to a category and severity.
You can even integrate findings into services like lambda to
automatically take actions for remediation or prevention.
This adds another layer of protection around your account activity to help avoid vulnerabilities.